1.5 Navigating the agent landscape




GPT agents represent an entire shift in how consumers and developers approach everything, from finding information to building software and accessing data. Almost daily, a new agent framework, component, or interface pops up on GitHub or in a research paper. This can be overwhelming and intimidating to the new user trying to grasp what agent systems are and how to use them.





Summary




An agent is an entity that acts or exerts power, produces an effect, or serves as a means for achieving a result. An agent automates interaction with a large language model (LLM) in AI.

An assistant is synonymous with an agent. Both terms encompass tools such as OpenAI’s GPT Assistants.

Autonomous agents can make independent decisions, and their distinction from non-autonomous agents is crucial.

The four main types of LLM interactions include direct user interaction, agent/ assistant proxy, agent/assistant, and autonomous agent.

Multi-agent systems involve agent profiles working together, often controlled by a proxy, to accomplish complex tasks.

The main components of an agent include the profile/persona, actions, knowledge/memory, reasoning/evaluation, and planning/feedback.

Agent profiles and personas guide an agent’s tasks, responses, and other nuances, often including background and demographics.

Actions and tools for agents can be manually generated, recalled from memory, or follow predefined plans.

Agents use knowledge and memory structures to optimize context and minimize token usage via various formats, from documents to embeddings.

Reasoning and evaluation systems enable agents to think through problems and assess solutions using prompting patterns such as zero-shot, one-shot, and few-shot.

Planning/feedback components organize tasks to achieve goals using single-path or multipath reasoning and integrating environmental and human feedback.

The rise of AI agents has introduced a new software development paradigm, shifting from traditional to natural language–based AI interfaces.

Understanding the progression and interaction of these tools helps develop agent systems, whether single, multiple, or autonomous.





