11.1 Planning: The essential tool for all agents/assistants




Agents and assistants who can’t plan and only follow simple interactions are nothing more than chatbots. As we’ve seen throughout this book, our goal isn’t to build bots but rather to build autonomous thinking agents—agents that can take a goal, work out how to solve it, and then return with the results.



Figure 11.1 explains the overall planning process that the agent/assistant will undertake. This figure was also presented in chapter 1, but let’s review it now in more detail. At the top of the figure, a user submits a goal. In an agentic system, the agent takes the goal, constructs the plan, executes it, and then returns the results.





Figure 11.1 The agent planning process




Depending on your interaction with platforms such as ChatGPT and GPTs, Claude, and others, you may have already encountered a planning assistant and not even noticed. Planning is becoming ubiquitous and is now built into most commercial platforms to make the model appear more intelligent and capable. Therefore, in the next exercise, we’ll look at an example to set a baseline and differentiate between an LLM that can’t plan and an agent that can.



For the next exercise, we’ll use Nexus to demonstrate how raw LLMs can’t plan independently. If you need assistance installing, setting up, and running Nexus, refer to chapter 7. After you have Nexus installed and ready, we can begin running it with the Gradio interface, using the commands shown next.





Listing 11.1 Running Nexus with the Gradio interface


nexus run gradio





Gradio is an excellent web interface tool built to demonstrate Python machine learning projects. Figure 11.2 shows the Gradio Nexus interface and the process for creating an agent and using an agent engine (OpenAI, Azure, and Groq) of your choice. You can’t use LM Studio unless the model/server supports tool/action use. Anthropic’s Claude supports internal planning, so for the purposes of this exercise, avoid using this model.





Figure 11.2 Creating a new agent in Nexus




After creating the agent, we want to give it specific actions (tools) to undertake or complete a goal. Generally, providing only the actions an agent needs to complete its goal is best for a few reasons:



More actions can confuse an agent into deciding which to use or even how to solve a goal.

APIs have limits on the number of tools that can be submitted; at the time of writing, hitting this limit is relatively easy.

Agents may use your actions in ways you didn’t intend unless that’s your goal. Be warned, however, that actions can have consequences.

Safety and security need to be considered. LLMs aren’t going to take over the world, but they make mistakes and quickly get off track. Remember, these agents will operate independently and may perform any action.



WARNING  While writing this book and working with and building agents over many hours, I have encountered several instances of agents going rogue with actions, from downloading files to writing and executing code when not intended, continually iterating from tool to tool, and even deleting files they shouldn’t have. Watching an agent emerge new behaviors using actions can be fun, but things can quickly go astray.



For this exercise, we’ll define the goal described in the following listing.





Listing 11.2 Demonstrating planning: The goal


Search Wikipedia for pages on {topic} and download each page and save it to a file called Wikipedia_{topic}.txt





This goal will demonstrate the following actions:



search_wikipedia(topic)—Searches Wikipedia and returns page IDs for the given search term.

get_wikipedia_page(page_id)—Downloads the page content given the page ID.

save_file—Saves the content to a file.



Set the actions on the agent, as shown in figure 11.3. You’ll also want to make sure the Planner is set to None. We’ll look at setting up and using planners soon. You don’t have to click Save; the interface automatically saves an agent’s changes.





Figure 11.3 Selecting the actions for the agent and disabling the planner




After you choose the actions and planner, enter the goal in listing 11.2. Then click Create New Thread to instantiate a new conversation. Substitute the topic you want to search for in the chat input, and wait for the agent to respond. Here’s an example of the goal filled with the topic, but again, use any topic you like:



Search Wikipedia for pages on Calgary and download each page and save it to a file called Wikipedia_Calgary.txt.





Figure 11.4 shows the results of submitting the goal to the plain agent. We see the agent executed the tool/action to search for the topic but couldn’t execute any steps beyond that. If you recall from our discussion and code example of actions in chapter 5, OpenAI, Groq, and Azure OpenAI all support parallel actions but not sequential or planned actions.





Figure 11.4 The results from trying to get the agent/LLM to complete the goal




The LLM can answer reasonably well if you submit a goal with several parallel tasks/actions. However, if the actions are sequential, requiring one step to be dependent on another, it will fail. Remember, parallel actions are standalone actions that can be run alongside others.



Anthropic’s Claude and OpenAI Assistants support sequential action planning. This means both models can be called with sequential plans, and the model will execute them and return the results. In the next section, we’ll explore sequential planning and then demonstrate it in action.





