5.1 Defining agent actions




ChatGPT plugins were first introduced to provide a session with abilities, skills, or tools. With a plugin, you can search the web or create spreadsheets or graphs. Plugins provide ChatGPT with the means to extend the platform.



Figure 5.1 shows how a ChatGPT plugin works. In this example, a new movie recommender plugin has been installed in ChatGPT. When a user asks ChatGPT to recommend a new movie, the large language model (LLM) recognizes that it has a plugin to manage that action. It then breaks down the user request into actionable parameters, which it passes to the new movie recommender.





Figure 5.1 How a ChatGPT plugin operates and how plugins and other external tools (e.g., APIs) align with the Use External Tools prompt engineering strategy




The recommender then scrapes a website showcasing new movies and appends that information to a new prompt request to an LLM. With this information, the LLM responds to the recommender, which passes this back to ChatGPT. ChatGPT then responds to the user with the recommended request.



We can think of plugins as proxies for actions. A plugin generally encapsulates one or more abilities, such as calling an API or scraping a website. Actions, therefore, are extensions of plugins—they give a plugin its abilities.



AI agents can be considered plugins and consumers of plugins, tools, skills, and other agents. Adding skills, functions, and tools to an agent/plugin allows it to execute well-defined actions—figure 5.2 highlights where agent actions occur and their interaction with LLMs and other systems.





Figure 5.2 How an agent uses actions to perform external tasks




An agent action is an ability that allows it to use a function, skill, or tool. What gets confusing is that different frameworks use different terminology. We’ll define an action as anything an agent can do to establish some basic definitions.



ChatGPT plugins and functions represent an actionable ability that ChatGPT or an agent system can use to perform additional actions. Now let’s examine the basis for OpenAI plugins and the function definition.





