6.1 Introducing behavior trees




Behavior trees are a long-established pattern used to control robotics and AI in games. Rodney A. Brooks first introduced the concept in his “A Robust Layered Control System for a Mobile Robot” paper in 1986. This laid the groundwork for a pattern that expanded on using the tree and node structure we have today.



If you’ve ever played a computer game with nonplayer characters (NPCs) or interacted with advanced robotic systems, you’ve witnessed behavior trees at work. Figure 6.1 shows a simple behavior tree. The tree represents all the primary nodes: selector or fallback nodes, sequence nodes, action nodes, and condition nodes.





Figure 6.1 A simple behavior tree of eating an apple or a pear




Table 6.1 describes the functions and purpose of the primary nodes we’ll explore in this book. There are other nodes and node types, and you can even create custom nodes, but for now, we’ll focus on those in the table.





Table 6.1 The primary nodes used in behavior trees


Node

Purpose

Function

Type



Selector (fallback)

This node works by selecting the first child that completes successfully. It’s often called the fallback node because it will always fall back to the last successful node that executed.

The node calls its children in sequence and stops executing when the first child succeeds. When a child node succeeds, it will return success; if no nodes succeed, it returns failure.

Composite



Sequence

This node executes all of its children in sequence until one node fails or they all complete successfully.

The node calls each of its children in sequence regardless of whether they fail or succeed. If all children succeed, it returns success, and failure if just one child fails.

Composite



Condition

Behavior trees don’t use Boolean logic but rather success or failure as a means of control. The condition returns success if the condition is true and false otherwise.

The node returns success or failure based on a condition.

Task



Action

This is where the action happens.

The node executes and returns success if successful or returns failure otherwise.

Task



Decorator

They work by controlling the execution of child nodes. They are often referred to as conditionals because they can determine whether a node is worth executing or safe to execute.

The node controls execution of the child nodes. Decorators can operate as control barrier functions to block or prevent unwanted behaviors.

Decorator



Parallel

This node executes all of its nodes in parallel. Success or failure is controlled by a threshold of the number of children needed to succeed to return success.

The node executes all of its child nodes in sequence regardless of the status of the nodes.

Composite





The primary nodes in table 6.1 can provide enough functionality to handle numerous use cases. However, understanding behavior trees initially can be daunting. You won’t appreciate their underlying complexity until you start using them. Before we build some simple trees, we want to look at execution in more detail in the next section.





