9.7.4 Exercises




Use the following exercises to improve your knowledge of the material:



Exercise 1 —Create a New Prompt Variant for Recommender Flow (Intermediate)



Objective —Improve the recommendation results by creating and testing a new prompt variant in prompt flow.



Tasks:



Create a new prompt variant for the recommender flow in prompt flow.

Run the flow in batch mode.

Evaluate the results to determine if they are better or worse compared to the original prompt.





Exercise 2 —Add a Custom Field to the Rubric and Evaluate (Intermediate)



Objective —Enhance the evaluation criteria by incorporating a custom field into the rubric and updating the evaluation flow.



Tasks:



Add the custom field as a new criterion to the rubric.

Update the evaluation flow to score the new criterion.

Evaluate the results, and analyze the effect of the new criterion on the evaluation.





Exercise 3 —Develop a New Use Case and Evaluation Rubric (Advanced)



Objective —Expand the application of prompt engineering by developing a new use case and creating an evaluation rubric.



Tasks:



Develop a new use case aside from the recommendation.

Build the prompt for the new use case.

Create a rubric for evaluating the new prompt.

Update or alter the evaluation flow to aggregate and compare the results of the new use case with existing ones.





Exercise 4 —Evaluate Other LLMs Using LM Studio (Intermediate)



Objective —Assess the performance of different open source LLMs by hosting a local server with LM Studio.



Tasks:



Use LM Studio to host a local server for evaluating LLMs.

Evaluate other open source LLMs.

Consult chapter 2 if assistance is needed for setting up the server and performing the evaluations.





Exercise 5 —Build and Evaluate Prompts Using Prompt Flow (Intermediate)



Objective —Apply prompt engineering strategies to build and evaluate new prompts or profiles using prompt flow.



Tasks:



Build new prompts or profiles for evaluation using prompt flow.

Apply the Write Clear Instructions prompt engineering strategy from chapter 2.

Evaluate the prompts and profiles using prompt flow.

Refer to chapter 2 for tactics and implementation details if a refresher is needed.





Summary




An agent profile consists of several other component prompts that can drive functions such as actions/tools, knowledge, memory, evaluation, reasoning, feedback, and planning.

Prompt flow can be used to evaluate an agent’s component prompts.

Systemic prompt engineering is an iterative process evaluating a prompt and agent profile.

The Test Changes Systematically strategy describes iterating and evaluating prompts, and system prompt engineering implements this strategy.

Agent profiles and prompt engineering have many similarities. We define an agent profile as the combination of prompt engineering elements that guide and help an agent through its task.

Prompt flow is an open source tool from Microsoft that provides several features for developing and evaluating profiles and prompts.

An LLM connection in prompt flow supports additional parameters, including temperature, stop token, max tokens, and other advanced parameters.

LLM blocks support prompt and profile variants, which allow for evaluating changes to the prompt/profile or other connection parameters.

A rubric applied to an LLM prompt is the criteria and standards a prompt/profile must fulfill to be grounded. Grounding is the scoring and evaluation of a rubric.

Prompt flow supports running multiple variations as single runs or batch runs.

In prompt flow, an evaluation flow is run after a generative flow to score and aggregate the results. The Visualize Runs option can compare the aggregated criteria from scoring the rubric across multiple runs.





